in Kenya's Amboseli our Duncan's came
across an event that showed some of the
complexities of an elephant's
intelligence and feelings something is
generating great excitement what exactly
is going on a baby has just been born
and his sisters and aunts crowd round
like visitors to a maternity ward his
first experience is a forest of
welcoming trunk helping him to his feet
few other animals show such human-like
interest and concern in another's
newborn a new baby as with us is
something for an elephant to get excited
about
especially one needing a lot of
attention
there this postnatal care makes it clear
that these are highly intelligent and
sensitive creatures but something even
more remarkable is about to happen
Bulls live apart so why does this one
choose this moment to join the family
gathering
unsure of the male's motives the females
shepherd the newborn away the male of
purpose now becomes clear one of the
females is in season unfortunately the
new baby is distracting his potential
mate he vents his frustration a young
female adopts the caring role of nanny
good practice for when she becomes a mum
[Music]
other females try to help and the bull
kicks out again but this is controlled
aggression he could inflict real damage
if he wanted
the baby's cries are heard by other
relatives the cavalry arrived the Bulls
frustration increases although he's not
out to harm the baby six tons of
mounting passion is getting dangerously
out of control this has been a baptism
of fire for a newborn but at last the
heat is off